---
title: "K6"
date: 2023-07-26 14:57:00 +0900
aliases: 
tags: [stress-test, k6, grafana, influxdb]
categories: 
updated: 2023-07-26 15:27:30 +0900
---

## What is K6?

K6 is an open-source load testing tool that is used for performance testing and monitoring of web applications. It allows developers and testers to simulate high traffic scenarios and analyze the performance of their applications under different load conditions.

K6 is designed to be developer-friendly, with a simple and expressive JavaScript syntax that allows users to write test scripts easily. It provides a rich set of features such as realistic load simulation, HTTP request/response analysis, WebSocket support, and distributed testing capabilities.

One of the key features of K6 is its integration with Grafana, a popular open-source analytics platform. Users can visualize the load testing results in real-time using Grafana dashboards, which provide detailed insights into various metrics such as response times, error rates, throughput, and concurrency.

To use K6, you need to write scripts in JavaScript using its API. These scripts define the specific requests to be made to the target application and specify the desired load scenario. Once the script is ready, you can run it using the k6 command-line interface or integrate it into your CI/CD pipeline for continuous performance testing.

Overall, K6 is a powerful tool for load testing web applications and gaining insights into their performance characteristics. It combines ease of use with advanced features and visualization capabilities through its integration with Grafana.

## Install

```bash
brew install k6
```

```bash
brew install influxdb-cli
```

```bash
influx ping
# OK
```

## Usage

```javascript
import http from 'k6/http';
import { sleep } from 'k6';

export default function () {
  http.get('http://test.k6.io');
  sleep(1);
}
```

```bash
k6 run script.js
```

```javascript
import http from 'k6/http';
import { sleep } from 'k6';

export const options = {
  stages: [
    { duration: '30s', target: 20 },
    { duration: '1m30s', target: 10 },
    { duration: '20s', target: 0 },
  ],
};

export default function () {
  http.get('http://test.k6.io');
  sleep(1);
}
```

```bash
k6 run --out influxdb=http://localhost:8086/myk6db script.js
```

## Conclusion

## Reference

- [Grafana K6 로 부하테스트하고 시각화하기](https://velog.io/@heka1024/Grafana-k6%EC%9C%BC%EB%A1%9C-%EB%B6%80%ED%95%98-%ED%85%8C%EC%8A%A4%ED%8A%B8%ED%95%98%EA%B8%B0)
- [Grafana K6 공식 문서](https://k6.io/docs/)
- [K6 GitHub 페이지](https://github.com/grafana/k6)
